# Clone the repository

```bash
git clone
```

# Turn on docker by opening the docker desktop


# Docker Commands for docker-practice

- **Docker Build**: Builds an image from a Dockerfile

  ```
  docker build -t docker-practice .
  ```

- **Docker Run**: To run docker file

  ```
  docker run -d -p 3002:3000 -e PORT=3000 docker-practice
  ```

**Description**: Above Command runs a Docker container in detached mode (-d) with port mapping, mapping port 4000 on the host to port 3001 in the container. The container is named docker-practice.

- **Docker Execution**: To execute a command in a running Docker container, use the `docker exec` command. For example, to list the files in the root directory of a running container, you can run:

  ```
  docker exec -it <container_name_or_id> ls

  ```

**Docker Exec**: Executes a co mmand in a running Docker container. Replace <container_name_or_id> with the actual ID of the running Docker container where you want to execute the command.

# Dockerfile Explanation

## 1. `FROM node:20`

This instruction specifies the base image to use for building this Docker image. It instructs Docker to pull the official Node.js image with the tag `20`. This image contains the Node.js runtime environment.

## 2. `WORKDIR /app`

This instruction sets the working directory inside the Docker container to `/app`. Subsequent instructions will be executed relative to this directory.

## 3. `COPY . .`

This instruction copies all files and directories from the current directory on the host (where the Docker build context is located) to the `/app` directory inside the Docker container.

## 4. `RUN npm i`

This instruction runs the `npm install` command inside the Docker container. It installs the dependencies listed in the `package.json` file of the application.

## 5. `RUN npx prisma generate`

This instruction runs the Prisma CLI command `npx prisma generate` inside the Docker container. Prisma is a modern database toolkit used for database access in Node.js applications. This command generates Prisma client code based on your Prisma schema.

## 6. `RUN npm run build`

This instruction runs the `npm run build` command inside the Docker container. It typically compiles TypeScript code, bundles assets, or performs any other build steps defined in the `scripts` section of the `package.json` file.

## 7. `CMD ["node", "dist/index.js"]`

This instruction specifies the default command to run when a container is started from this Docker image. It runs the Node.js application entry point, which is typically the `index.js` file located in the `dist` directory after the build step.


# Docker Volumes Example

This example demonstrates how to use Docker volumes to persist data in a MongoDB container.

## Without Volumes

By default, when you run a MongoDB container without specifying a volume, the data stored inside the container is lost when the container is stopped or restarted.

```bash
# Start a MongoDB container
docker run -p 27017:27017 -d mongo

# Open MongoDB Compass and connect to the running container. Add some data to the database.

# Kill the container
docker kill <container_id>

# Restart the container
docker run -p 27017:27017 -d mongo

# Open MongoDB Compass again and try to explore the database. The data you added earlier is no longer present.
```

# With Volumes

To persist data across container restarts, you can use Docker volumes. Volumes are managed by Docker and provide a way to store data outside the container's filesystem.

```bash
# Create a volume
docker volume create volume_database

# Start a MongoDB container and mount the volume to the /data/db directory (where MongoDB stores its data)
docker run -v volume_database:/data/db -p 27017:27017 -d mongo

# Open MongoDB Compass and connect to the running container. Add some data to the database.

# Kill the container
docker kill <container_id>

# Restart the container, making sure to mount the same volume
docker run -v volume_database:/data/db -p 27017:27017 -d mongo
```

# Open MongoDB Compass again and explore the database. The data you added earlier is still present.


By using volumes, you can ensure that important data generated by containers is stored separately from the container's filesystem. This allows the data to survive container restarts and enables data persistence across different container instances.

# Additional Volume Commands

Here are a few additional commands related to volumes in Docker:

```bash

# List all volumes
docker volume ls

# Inspect a specific volume
docker volume inspect <volume_name>

# Remove a volume
docker volume rm <volume_name>

# Remove all unused volumes
docker volume prune


```